Today we will work together to build a collection of texts from Project Gutenberg (PG): http://www.gutenberg.org/

1. What formats are available? What should we choose? What encodings are documents in?

HTML (ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)), Epub with Images or Without (UTF-8). The encoding for this was found by looking at the Epub's container.xml file which outlined a basic format
of the document. Kindle with Images or Without ((US-ASCII) and UTF-8). Finally there is .txt format (UTF-8). Because .txt files are the most clear of any other formatting and
contain only the most basic details of the text (i.e the story itself and possibly a title) combined with the UTF-8 format of the file, makes the .txt format the clear choice
for us for this project.

2. What should we collect? What should we avoid? Why?

We should collect texts that are primarily fiction. PG contains a lot of non-fiction novels like "CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION
METHODS AND COST". Written in 1908 the text is about "How best to perform construction work and what it will cost for materials, labor, plant and general expenses
are matters of vital interest to engineers and contractors." Texts like these are not particularly useful when it comes to analysis (For example determining
which author wrote which work).

3. What are the limits of the collection that is available to us in PG?

The limits is that PG only offers texts that were produced before the "Calvin Coolidge Apocalypse". After this period books distributed were protected from being
freely distributed by United States Copyright laws. Although we can access PG in other countries which have less restrictive laws, for our purposes the
US PG limits us in this was.

We'll start by filling out a metadata spreadsheet here:

  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XgFnLrpawyh2o_8FE_hngTCuUyEK5W9jwAeda9CWq28/edit?usp=sharing

4. What additional information should we collect about each text? Explain why it is interesting. Are any of these variables problematic? Why or why not

Author, Year, NetID, Original Language, Genre, Author Age, Author Gender, Source, and Emoji. Author, Author Age, and Author gender are problematic because
the original author of some of these works are unknown. We could perform these variables on the person who translated the document, but it wouldn't
necessarily be helpful. Emoji's are problematic because they need to be emoji's that are readable by certain formats. Additionally the emoji chosen,
as shown in class was very subjective, and didn't really contribute to our analysis besides being funny that a Eggplant was associated with Moby Dick.

Each student should be responsible for at least one text. Select texts in English, but do not limit to texts originally written in English.

5. List the titles / PG IDs of your texts.
My text is "THE MABINOGION". The PG Id is 5160.

6. Look at the text of your document. What changes to the text do you want to make? Are there parts of the text that you are not certain whether you should keep? Explain both sides, and why you made a particular decision.

We should only collect the text within the story itself. During class we decided to delete everything up to chapter one, unless there was a preface by the author.
If you had titles of multiple short stories those should be left as well. Otherwise delete. The reason for this is that the areas not covered by there rules
were not pertinent to the story and would have only served to screw up out analysis when actually analyzing the corpus.


Add your files through this web interface to the *Cornell* local github site. (Use your netid/password, not your regular GitHub id)

  https://github.coecis.cornell.edu/dm655/novels-gutenberg

7. So far we've looked at several tools for measuring aspects of text, like sentiment lexicons, word-use ratios for classification, and distance metrics like Jaccard, cosine, and Burrows.
What do you expect will happen when we apply these to this new collection? What distinctions, based on book attributes, will be easy or hard to measure through words?

These aspects of measuring text can be used when we start trying to cluster works together. For example Jaccard similarity is used to merge similar elements together.
The distinctions between various subgenres (i.e Crime Fiction vs Detective fiction) or works of satire will be hard to measure through their words. 
